README.md, before:

# kmerator

## A prototype for kmer decomposition and extraction of transcript or gene-specific kmers

Kmerator is a prototype tool designed for prediction of specific k-mers (tags) from an input sequence, considering the sequence of a reference genome and transcriptome. Kmerator use jellyfish to create two requestable indexes from these references, decompose your input sequence and count the occurences of each kmers of the input in the genome and transcriptome. The occurrences counts are then interpreted, in different manners, to select tags of the input.

Kmerator strictly depends of an Ensembl Annotation, you can find it there : https://www.ensembl.org/info/data/ftp/index.html

You’ll need a genome and a transcriptome, fasta format. You can reuse the jellyfish of the genome in the options. 

Interpretations of counts will differ, depending of the “level” option : 
- gene 
- transcript 
- chimeras (must not be fount in your reference, genome or transcriptome)

## Dependencies :

- Kmerator is a julia script : Julia => v0.5 (https://julialang.org/downloads/)
- Install Julia packages : open julia and type
```
        Pkg.add(“ParallelDataTransfer”)
        Pkg.add(“ArgParse”)
        Pkg.add(“FastaIO”)
        Pkg.add(“RCall”) (temporary dependency, will be removed in next version)
```
- R + (stringi) & rjson libraries (temporary dependency, will be removed in next version)
- Jellyfish 2.0


## Usage
```
julia -p [nb-threads] kmerator.jl [--selection [SELECTION...]] [--appris APPRIS] [-u]
                   [-s] [-v] -g GENOME -t TRANSCRIPTOME -l LEVEL
                   [-o OUTPUT] [--length LENGTH]
                   [--threshold THRESHOLD] fasta_file
```

## arguments
```
  --selection [SELECTION...]
                        list of gene to select directly inside your
                        fasta transcriptome file (ENST, ENSG, official_symbol)
  --appris APPRIS        indicate :
                        'homo_sapiens','mus_musculus','rattus_norvegicus','danio_rerio','sus_scrofa',''
                        or virtually any specie available on APPRIS
                        database (Rodriguez JM, Rodriguez-Rivas J,
                        Domenico TD, Vázquez J, Valencia A, and Tress
                        ML. Nucleic Acids Res. Database issue; 2017
                        Oct 23.).     A gene have multiple possible
                        sequence depending of its variants. this
                        option select the principal transcript of a
                        gene, based of APPRIS database, or by length
                        if no data or no internet connection. If 'APPRIS’ option
                        and not available data or no principal
                        transcript (non-coding genes), use length
                        instead
  -u, --unannotated     activated if the provided initial fasta file
                        correspond to an annotation external from
                        Ensembl. 
  -s, --stringent       FOR GENE LEVEL ONLY : If you want select tags present 
                        in ALL variants of the corresponding gene 
  -v, --verbose         If you want this script talk too much
  -g, --genome GENOME   the genome fasta (.fa) or index by jellyfish
                        for kmer request
  -t, --transcriptome TRANSCRIPTOME
                        The transcriptome fasta (.fa) (FASTA ONLY) for
                        kmer request and transcriptional variant
                        informations
  -l, --level LEVEL     Type 'gene', 'transcript' or 'chimera' to
                        extract specific kmer at these different
                        levels. 'chimera' option must be done with
                        'unannotated' option!.
  -o, --output OUTPUT   directory of output (default: ".")
  --length LENGTH       length required for the kmer generation (type:
                        Int64, default: 31)
  --threshold THRESHOLD
                        FOR GENE LEVEL ONLY : Minimum fraction of
                        annotated transcripts containing this kmer to
                        admit a tag (default 0.5) (default: 0.5)
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

```

Commit message:

Version 0.2.0 (2019-07-23)
- Revised code to better readability.
- New option: "--procs" or "-p" to specify number of process to parallelize.
- Add this CHANGELOG.md file
- Add TODO.md file

README.md, after:

# kmerator

## A prototype for kmer decomposition and extraction of transcript or gene-specific kmers

Kmerator is a prototype tool designed for prediction of specific k-mers (tags) from an input sequence, considering the sequence of a reference genome and transcriptome. Kmerator use jellyfish to create two requestable indexes from these references, decompose your input sequence and count the occurences of each kmers of the input in the genome and transcriptome. The occurrences counts are then interpreted, in different manners, to select tags of the input.

Kmerator strictly depends of an Ensembl Annotation, you can find it there : https://www.ensembl.org/info/data/ftp/index.html

You’ll need a genome and a transcriptome, fasta format. You can reuse the jellyfish of the genome in the options. 

Interpretations of counts will differ, depending of the “level” option : 
- gene 
- transcript 
- chimeras (must not be fount in your reference, genome or transcriptome)

## Dependencies :

- Kmerator is a julia script : Julia => v0.5 (https://julialang.org/downloads/).
- kmerator ask to install missing packages automatically so it is no need to install 
ParallelDataTransfer, ArgParse, FastaIO, JSON and HTTP.
- Jellyfish 2.0


## Usage
```
kmerator.jl [--selection [SELECTION...]] [--appris APPRIS] [-u]
                   [-s] [-v] -g GENOME -t TRANSCRIPTOME -l LEVEL
                   [-o OUTPUT] [--length LENGTH] -p [nb-threads]
                   [--threshold THRESHOLD] fasta_file
```

## arguments
```
  --selection [SELECTION...]
                        list of gene to select directly inside your
                        fasta transcriptome file (ENST, ENSG, official_symbol)
  --appris APPRIS        indicate :
                        'homo_sapiens','mus_musculus','rattus_norvegicus','danio_rerio','sus_scrofa',''
                        or virtually any specie available on APPRIS
                        database (Rodriguez JM, Rodriguez-Rivas J,
                        Domenico TD, Vázquez J, Valencia A, and Tress
                        ML. Nucleic Acids Res. Database issue; 2017
                        Oct 23.).     A gene have multiple possible
                        sequence depending of its variants. this
                        option select the principal transcript of a
                        gene, based of APPRIS database, or by length
                        if no data or no internet connection. If 'APPRIS’ option
                        and not available data or no principal
                        transcript (non-coding genes), use length
                        instead
  -u, --unannotated     activated if the provided initial fasta file
                        correspond to an annotation external from
                        Ensembl. 
  -s, --stringent       FOR GENE LEVEL ONLY : If you want select tags present 
                        in ALL variants of the corresponding gene 
  -v, --verbose         If you want this script talk too much
  -g, --genome GENOME   the genome fasta (.fa) or index by jellyfish
                        for kmer request
  -t, --transcriptome TRANSCRIPTOME
                        The transcriptome fasta (.fa) (FASTA ONLY) for
                        kmer request and transcriptional variant
                        informations
  -l, --level LEVEL     Type 'gene', 'transcript' or 'chimera' to
                        extract specific kmer at these different
                        levels. 'chimera' option must be done with
                        'unannotated' option!.
  -o, --output OUTPUT   directory of output (default: ".")
  --length LENGTH       length required for the kmer generation (type:
                        Int64, default: 31)
  --threshold THRESHOLD
                        FOR GENE LEVEL ONLY : Minimum fraction of
                        annotated transcripts containing this kmer to
                        admit a tag (default 0.5) (default: 0.5)
  -p, --procs PROCS     Run n local processes
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

```
